The Death Christ Died

 

We look back at the death of Christ as a historical event almost 2000 years ago.  But there is some things about Christ’s death that continues to this very day.  This morning I want to tell you about three of them. 

 

 

1.    A Ransom Death (Mark 10:45)

 

                DEFINE: Ransom – refers to the price paid to free a slave or a

                            prisoner of war.

 

                EXPLAIN: Christ is saying that his very life yielded up as a

                              sacrifice on the cross is that price paid.  And the aim

                              was you and me.

 

                        NOTE: There is a sense of substitution here.  The word

“for” comes from a Greek word that means, “instead of”.  Do you get it—Jesus died instead of you and me.

 

                        APPLY: The Bible teaches that all of us have earned death

                                   by our sins.

 

                                BIBLE: Romans 3:23; Romans 6:23; Genesis

                                                  2:16-17; Ezekiel 18:20

 

                                   But by His death, Jesus was paying the very debt

                                   that our sins had earned.  That’s ransom.

 

                EXPLAIN: There is one more thing we need to notice here before

we move on – the word “many”.  Notice the Bible does not use the word, “all”.  Christ’s death on the cross was sufficient for the sins of all people, but the effect of it is that only some will receive the benefit of Christ’s ransom.

 

               

 

 

 

 

2.    A Redemptive Death (Ephesians 1:7)

 

                DEFINE: Redemption – Ransom (above) refers to the price paid;

redemption refers to what happens after we have been ransomed and the price paid. 

 

We have been set free from the guilt of our sins (note Eph. 1:7).

 

NOTE: In His death Jesus fulfilled the demands of God’s

justice for our sins.  And what was that demand?  Death!

 

                        APPLY: Beloved we are guilty before God!  We are

                                  wretched, pitiful, poor, blind and naked before God

 

                                        BIBLE: Revelation 3:17

 

                EXPLAIN: Redemptions means that those who have trusted in

Christ have had sins’ price paid, and are now forgiven,  and the guilt that we have before God has been lifted away.  That is redemption.

 

                APPLY: Are you trusting in Jesus to save you?  If you are then

your sins can no longer condemn you to Hell.  Redemption has come to you; praise the Lord!

 

                        So…ransom pays the price our sins deserve; and

redemption takes away our guilt.  But there is still one  more thing the death of Christ does for you…

 

 

3.    A Reconciling Death (1 Peter 3:18)

 

                EXPLAIN: “Brought back to God”

 

                        BIBLE: Colossians 1:21-22; Isaiah 59:2; Ephesians

2:11-13; 1 Peter 3:18; Hebrews 4:16; Ephesians 3:12

 

                NOTE: So here’s how it works: Jesus pays a price to ransom you

from the punishment you deserve; he lifts the guilt you have earned by your sins, and finally, He brings you back to God.  All this is done by the death of Christ on the Cross.  It is a ransom death.  It is a redemptive death.  It is a reconciling death.

 

                APPLY: Now I would say that is pretty incredible!

 

 

CLOSE:

 

        STORY: What if you were pretty wealthy and you saw a homeless man

dressed in rags, sitting in a make-shift cardboard house, under the overpass in the big city.  What if you had compassion and determined to help; to change the entire situation for that man.  What if you used your money to buy new clothes for this guy, to get him a shave and a haircut, and to give him cash for a new start in life.  Finally, let’s say you decided that to really help this guy you would bring him into your house to live with you as a son.  That would be pretty nice, wouldn’t it? 

 

It sure would.  But it still wouldn’t come close to God’s kind of love and compassion.  To do that you would have to be willing to give up the one you love most of all on this earth, to rescue that homeless man.  You would have to put him or her to death by your own will and choosing.

 

I doubt very highly that I would find any takers to love a homeless man with this kind of love.  But that is exactly what God did to rescue you for the homeless alleys of life.  That is what God did to clean you from the stench of your sinfulness.  That is what God did to ransom. Redeem, and reconcile you.

 

That is what the death of Christ did for you.  You were that homeless man.  And  God saved you by putting his own beloved Son to death.

 

But there is more…..

 

        NOTE: What God did for you goes even deeper

 

·         Revelation 13:8 – He laid the plans for Christ dying before He even created the universe!

 

·         Ephesians 1:4 – He made the choice  to rescue you by Christ’s death; to choose YOU to be saved and rescued by Christ’s death—before he made the Universe.

 

·         So let’s get this straight—God before He made anything, looked off into the future, saw that you would fall and rebel against Him, so He laid His plan to sacrifice the Son He loved for you, and He also, made the plan to specifically save you!  Wow!

 

So…how do we apply this incredible truth?

 

·         If you have never trusted Christ…

 

·         If you are a Christian today…

 